as the oldest university in the country
Harvard has a long history of tradition
during my last year here I made it my
mission to alert those traditions as
possible in this process I chanced upon
one that I don't entirely understand
that of the three-legged chair that
president Faust sits on today apparently
this chair was purchased by former
Harvard president Edward Holyoke and has
been used during convocations and
commencements ever since though the
story is intriguing I had to wonder who
really needs a three-legged chair how
could three legs possibly be better than
four and what does this say about
Harvard the more I thought about the
three legs that support that chair the
more I thought about what has supported
me during my time at Harvard as I
reflect on the entirety of my liberal
arts education I realized that the
foundational knowledge I have acquired
is not exactly what I expected it to be
as a chemistry concentrator I thought
that reaction mechanisms or the periodic
table might be my foundation but while
I'm so thankful to have learned from the
dedicated chemistry professors at
Harvard this single subject is not what
supports me instead it's the learning
across disciplines that has given my
classmates and me a framework to think
about the world chemistry is not just
chemistry it's one of the many subjects
where women have traditionally been
underrepresented as I learned in the
Women and Gender Studies department it's
also
mystical science that English literature
has sought to depict for generations
dating back to the poison dispensing
apothecary of Romeo and Juliet
by understanding the ways that my
primary concentration relates to other
disciplines I can try to make sense of
the world through a more complete point
of view this liberal arts education
makes up part of the foundation that we
will leave Harvard with one of the legs
of that special chair as I leave Harvard
I am also thankful for the classmates
who have stood up for their beliefs and
challenged me to do the same I remember
way back to opening days to the
community conversations where we were
expected to discuss difficult issues of
bioethics race and class personally I
was scared out of my mind and in
retrospect I'm sure that many of my
classmates experienced those same
feelings of fear we were unsure of how
to express ourselves unsure of how our
beliefs might then impact our personal
relationships but then slowly over the
past four years my peers taught me to be
less afraid to share the opinions and
beliefs that I hold dear and to invite
others to be open and honest with me now
when I see something like the
inequalities in our education system I
want to talk about them
to hear from others and to seek out
solutions when talk turns to religion
and spirituality I am excited to share
my beliefs and to learn from those of
others because of the support of
students around me I've learned to be
proud of my classmates beliefs and
accomplishments and to value my own
contributions as a small part of a
potential solution after all this
sharing of ideas is the only way real
change can happen and it composes the
second leg of that traditional chair I
have also come to depend on the
committee that surrounds Harvard during
my sophomore year I worked for a summer
camp through the Phillips Brooks House
Association through this program I had
the opportunity to get to know a group
of high school students who had recently
moved here to Boston from different
countries all over the world at one
point during the summer one students
family invited the staff over for dinner
wanting to share with us both their food
and their stories they told of leaving
their home country of Iraq as refugees
coming to the United States where
despite their graduate level degrees
they found it impossible to find work
due to both the language barrier and the
prejudice that they encountered here
their willingness to share and be
vulnerable reminded me of the kind of
familial love that's so easy to forget
about on a college campus I am so glad
that Harvard is located in the midst of
such a great community and I hope that
future students will continue to explore
the areas around them
and get to know the issues that face the
community they live in so then we have
three legs three legs of the chair that
president Faust is sitting on today and
three legs of academics and peers and
community but what happened to that
fourth leg and why was it left out
perhaps that fourth leg was left out
strategically to remind us that our
learning experiences are not over and
that we must continue to seek out
opportunities to build our support
systems in years to come hopefully as we
think back on all of Harvard's many
traditions that missing leg will serve
as a reminder to take the lessons we
learned here forward graduation may be
today but the search for the missing leg
can go on as long as we live